**Note:** *This is a rewrite of an old blog post from way back, it still might be useful so I'm throwing it on here.*

Pdb (the python debugger) does not play nice with psyco. Or maybe it's the opposite. The reason for that is, when psyco is active, all your psyco-compiled functions are stored away in a secret place which poor Pdb is not aware of, resulting in useful debugging sessions.

Let's start with a simple python program, that will surely provoke a breakpoint:

<script src="http://gist.github.com/575083.js?file=hello_pdb.py"></script>

A debugging session with pdb should look like that:

<script src="http://gist.github.com/575099.js?file=pdb_psyco_session"></script>

What happens here?
*  We start a pdb debugging session on the hello_pdb.py file
*  the command 'c' (continue) starts the program
*  The program throws a ZeroDivisionError, pdb enters post-mortem debugging
*  We try to inspect the environment : the variable arg does not exist, the locals() dictionnary is empty.

At least 2 solutions exist. First, you could comment the psyco.full() statement for every debug session. However, this isn't always an option, as some libraries always makes the use of psyco if it is available. Uncommenting and recommenting in every third party library is not an option.

So, how do I seamlessly disable psyco while debugging a module with Pdb ? After some research, it seemed like the [pydev](http://pydev.sourceforge.net) eclipse extension had just the workaround I needed. First, we need a fake psyco module, implementing the psyco interface. Something like this :

<script src="http://gist.github.com/575112.js?file=pdb_psyco_stub.py"></script></div>

This is just a copy of the pydevd_psyco_stub.py file shipped with pydev, I'm not taking credit for anything here. Of course I could just be using pydev, but I'm a smug person who decided to use emacs for all my python work so. I could also be using winpdb who seems aware of the psyco problem too, but again, emacs and shit.

Next, we need to tell Pdb to replace the psyco entry in sys.modules with that fake module. This is done through the .pdbrc configuration file. Conveniently, the .pdbrc file accepts plain python code, so it's like super easy and stuff.
Here's my .pdbrc :

<script src="http://gist.github.com/575176.js?file=dotpdbrc"></script>



And that's it.

A few remarks :
* Obviously, those two files need to be in your home directory
* On Windows, this means2 putting them in an arbitrary folder, and then create a %HOME% environment variable pointing to that directory3
* I strongly recommend the use of the pprint function (especially for inspecting your data while debugging)


So what does it mean for our test module from earlier ? Let me show it to you :

<script src="http://gist.github.com/575180.js?file=pdb_psyco_stub_session"></script>

Great success.
